#summary Terms and Information
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

= Actions: Minimal Response =
== Test ==
This preforms a test (status and row replication testing) and returns the status: "Success" or "Failure"

`..../replication-monitor/?action=Test`

== Test & Heal ==
This preforms a test (status and row replication testing) and returns "Success" if successful.  If the test fails, it then attempts to automatically "Heal" by restarting the replication (see *Restart Slave*).  It will then test again and return the status: "Success" or "Failure"

`..../replication-monitor/?action=TestAndHeal`

= Actions: HTML Response =
== Test ==
Like Above, but with more output, links, errors, and debugging information.

`..../replication-monitor/?action=TestHTML`

== Test & Heal ==
Like Above, but with more output, links, errors, and debugging information.

`..../replication-monitor/?action=TestAndHealHTML`

== Restart Slave ==
This action will restart the Slave server
{{{
STOP SLAVE;
RESET SLAVE;
CHANGE MASTER TO MASTER_LOG_FILE='$file', MASTER_LOG_POS=$pos;
START SLAVE;
}}}
And then it will test status again, by preforming a "Skip Start Slave" action.

`..../replication-monitor/?action=RestartSlave`

== Skip Start Slave ==
Sometimes there's a conflict when replicating content from the Master to the Slave (perhaps someone wrote a record to the slave?).  This action will attempt to skip the record and start replication again... it loops 10 times, attempting.
{{{
SET GLOBAL SQL_SLAVE_SKIP_COUNTER=1;
START SLAVE;
START SLAVE IO_THREAD;
START SLAVE SQL_THREAD;
}}}
This results in a status message, testing after the start.

`..../replication-monitor/?action=SkipStartSlaveIfBadStatus`

= Actions: Testing =
== Break Replication (destructive) ==
This writes a row to the slave, which will break your replication.  Useful for testing, but be really careful in a production environment.  (you can edit the code to remove this link if you like.)

`..../replication-monitor/?action=BreakReplication`

== Rebuild Slave (destructive) ==
This will stop replication, delete all databases on the slave, and then load the data from the master.  

*WARNING: this can be _really slow_ and lock up the server while running.*

When I do this, I typically will change hosts/dns to repoint "slave" to the master server so nothing is hitting the slave... then rebuild the slave... once complete, swap the hosts/dns back.  (of course this assumes you have configured the replication-monitor to access the slave server by a different means/hostname)

`..../replication-monitor/?action=RebuildSlave`